behind winston's back the voice from the telescreen was still babbling away 
about pig-iron and the overfulfilment of the ninth three-year plan. the       
telescreen received and transmitted simultaneously. any sound that winston made, 
above the level of a very low whisper, would be picked up by it, moreover, 
so long as he remained within the field of vision which the metal plaque commanded, 
he could be seen as well as heard. there was of course no way of knowing whether 
you were being watched at any given moment. how often, or on what system, the
thought police plugged in on any individual wire was guesswork. it was even 
conceivable that they watched everybody all the time. but at any rate they
could plug in your wire whenever they wanted to. you had to live -- did live,
from habit that became instinct -- in the assumption that every sound you made     
was overheard, and, except in darkness, every movement scrutinized.

winston kept his back turned to the telescreen. it was safer, though, as he well
knew, even a back can be revealing. a kilometre away the ministry of truth, his 
place of work, towered vast and white above the grimy landscape. this, he thought
with a sort of vague distaste -- this was london, chief city of airstrip one,
itself the third most populous of the provinces of oceania. he tried to squeeze
out some childhood memory that should tell him whether london had always been    
quite like this. were there always these vistas of rotting nineteenth-century 
houses, their sides shored up with baulks of timber, their windows patched with   
cardboard and their roofs with corrugated iron, their crazy garden walls sagging 
in all directions? and the bombed sites where the plaster dust swirled in the
air and the willow-herb straggled over the heaps of rubble; and the places where 
the bombs had cleared a larger patch and there had sprung up sordid colonies 
of wooden dwellings like chicken-houses? but it was no use, he could not 
remember: nothing remained of his childhood except a series of bright-lit   
tableaux occurring against no background and mostly unintelligible. 

